TO ORDER THE
REPEAL'S MEETING JULY 17, 2025
WE HAVE LOBOTOMIZE FOR IT.
NO, PAUL DARLING HERE FOR NO
ROBERT HART HERE BOARD MEMBER
DAVID AHISTORIC ABSENT BOARD
MEMBER YOU FLAC HERE FOR NO
KEVIN PARKS ABSENT BUILDING
OFFICIAL MAXXAM YOU PRESENT MY
REDMANN PRESENT AND JULIET
HURBY STAFF WE HAVE A QUORUM
THANK YOU.
>> RUTHANNA AGENDA IS APPROVED
OF THE AGENDA AND I HAVE A
MOTION TO APPROVE THE AGENDA.
I APPROVE THE AGENDA MOTION TO
APPROVE SECOND OK WAS BEIRA BY
THE WE HAVE MANAGED TO MAKE A
FEW YES.
ANY COMMENT BUT
WE COME TO WE
GOT A MOTION TO APPROVE THEM OR
MOVE TO APPROVE THE MINUTES NO
SECOND VOTE IN FAVOR I WILL
APPROVE.
NEXT ITEM ON THE AGENDA IS THE
APPEALS ACTIONS AND SHOW CAUSE
HEARINGS.
WE HAVE ONE APPLICATION TODAY
IT'S SET FOR THREE OR SHE E
EVERY THREE SO I'LL EXPLAIN THE
PROCESS IS IT WERE FIRST WILL
ASK FOR THE APPLICANT COME UP
I'LL SIGN IN AND THEN WE'LL
HAVE THE STAFF MAKE THEIR
REPORT AND THEN THE APPLICANT
CAN PRESENT THEIR REQUEST FOR
VARIANCE OR WHAT THEY'RE ASKING
FOR AND SEE IF YOU'RE HAVING A
FOLLOW UP QUESTION TO THAT AND
BOARD CAN ASK QUESTIONS OF THE
APPLICANT ABOUT THEIR VARIANCE
REQUEST AND THEN WE MAKE A
MOTION TO START OFF WITH YOU
CAN COME UP, SIGN IN AND THEN
WE'LL HAVE THAT REPORT.
SO THE PROPERTY OF 302 E
LIBERTY THAT'S A BUSINESS USE
PERMIT APPLICATION WAS
SUBMITTED FOR TWELVE AND ISSUED
SIX TWENTY SIX OF TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR WITH THE WORK DESCRIBED AS
FINISHED THIRD FLOOR TO HAVE
THREE OFFICES RECEPTION AREA
AND ONE BATHROOM AT ROUGH
INSPECTION
BUILDING INSPECTOR
JAMIE WORTHINGTON NOTED TWO
ZERO 2015 MVC SECTION TEN
ELEVEN POINT FIVE POINT TO MAX
RISE SEVEN INCHES MINIMUM RUN
ELEVEN ENTIRELY OCCUPANCY
STAIRS BUILT AT SEVEN AND THREE
QUARTER RISE IN AN EIGHT RUN
DESIGN PROFESSIONAL TO REVISE
AND TO SHOW NEWLY CONSTRUCTED
STAIRWAY FROM SECOND TO THIRD
FLOOR ADDRESS OF FIRE RATED
WINDOWS ARE GOING TO BE
INSTALLED PER PRINT ON ALL
FLOORS AND ADDRESS OF STAIRWAY
WALL IS GOING TO BE REWORKED TO
ONE OUR RATING PER PRINT.
CURRENTLY EXISTING STAIRWELLS
NOTHING NEW DOWN THE STAIRS DO
NOT MEET THE REQUIREMENTS
OF TEN ELEVEN POINT FIVE POINT
TWO OR SECTION TEN ELEVEN POINT
SIX OF THE TWENTY FIFTEEN
MICHIGAN BUILDING CODE .
THE APPLICANT'S REQUESTED
RELIEF FROM THESE SECTIONS IS
THEY BELIEVE THE STAIR GEOMETRY
,GEOMETRY AND LANDING AS
CONSTRUCTED IS AN EQUAL OR
BETTER FORM OF CONSTRUCTION
STAFF RECOMMENDS THIS
APPLICATION BE DENIED AS IT
DOES NOT MEET THE STANDARDS FOR
APPROVAL.
THE CODE HAS NOT BEEN
MISINTERPRETED.
THE PROVISIONS OF THE CODE DO
APPLY IN THE CURRENT CONDITION
IS LESS SAFE THAN THE MINIMUM
REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION TEN
ELEVEN POINT FIVE POINT TWO AND
SECTION TEN ELEVEN POINT SIX
OF THE TWENTY FIFTEEN MICHIGAN
BUILDING CODE .
THE BASIS OF THIS APPEAL
SUGGESTS THAT WHAT'S PROPOSED
IS EQUAL TO OR BETTER THAN THE
CODE REQUIREMENTS BUT IT'S NOT
PROVEN AS SUCH BY THE
INFORMATION PROVIDED BASED ON
THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE TWENTY
FIFTEEN THE MICHIGAN BUILDING
CODE SECTION TEN ELEVEN POINT
FIVE TWENTY POINT TWO STAFF
RECOMMENDS THE BOARD DENY THIS
REQUEST AND REQUIRE NEW
CONSTRUCTION ELEMENTS.
MEET THE MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS
OF THE 2015 MICHIGAN BUILDING
CODE AS REQUIRED BY THE 2015
MICHIGAN REHABILITATION
CODE FOR EXISTING BUILDING
SECTION EIGHT ONE POINT THREE
THE APPLICANT STATES THAT
CANNOT ALTER THE STRUCTURE
BECAUSE IT IS IN THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT BUT NOT HAVE NOT
PROVIDED ANY INFORMATION
INDICATING THAT THIS IS
TECHNICALLY INFEASIBLE TO
RECONFIGURE THEIR INTERIOR TO
ACCOMMODATE A CODE COMPLIANCE,
THEIR GEOMETRY OR
CODE COMPLIANT.
THANK YOU TO WE CAN COME UP
STATE YOUR NAME AND PRESENT.
YEAH GO AHEAD.
GOOD AFTERNOON.
I NEED TO SIGN YOUR SIGN SHEET
THERE.
YEAH WELL I SIGNED THAT ALL
RIGHT.
ALL RIGHT.
GREAT MEMORY GOOD AFTERNOON.
MY NAME IS MATTHEW CRICKED AND
MY WIFE AND I ARE THE OWNERS
OF THREE OR TWO CELEBRITY.
>> THE THIRD FLOOR OF THE
BUILDING IS THE OLD HEARD DAVID
GUITAR BUILDING ON THE CORNER
OF 5TH AND LIBERTY AND THE
THIRD FLOOR HAD BEEN GUITAR
REPAIR FOR MANY YEARS AND WE'VE
WE WE RENOVATED THE FIRST AND
SECOND FLOORS FOR OFFICE USE
ABOUT SEVEN YEARS AGO AND THEN
STARTING LAST YEAR WE WERE
TRYING TO RENOVATE THE THIRD
FLOOR OF THE BUILDINGS ABOUT
THIRTY FIVE HUNDRED SQUARE FEET
AND IT DOES HAVE A SPRINKLER
SYSTEM FOR THE BUILDING.
IT'S NOT A LARGE BUILDING.
THE THIRD FLOOR IS ONLY
LITERALLY ABOUT EIGHT HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET BECAUSE OF THE ROOF
.
THE ROOF LINES ARE YOU KNOW,
TECHNICALLY CUTTING OFF SOME
OF THE SQUARE FOOTAGE THE THE
WAY IT WAS BEFORE WE TRIED TO
DO STARTED THE RENOVATION WAS
THERE WAS A SERIOUS TRIP HAZARD
AT THE TOP UNDER THE OLD STAIRS
YOU GOT TO THE TOP AND YOU HAD
TO MAKE A STEP UP TO EITHER
SIDE AND YOU KNOW WHAT WE DID
IS WE LEVELED THAT OUT AND WE
BROUGHT THE STAIRS BACK.
>> SO YOU KNOW, WE FEEL THAT WE
REALLY ENHANCE THE SAFETY
OVERALL BECAUSE THE STAIR
HAZARD AT THE TOP WAS LIKE MORE
DANGEROUS THAN ANYTHING ELSE.
THE OTHER THING IS THE WAY IT
WAS BEFORE IS WHEN YOU GOT TO
THE BOTTOM OF THE STAIRS THE
DOOR WAS BRIGHT UP TO THE
STAIRS AND WHAT WE'RE PROPOSING
THE VARIANCES THAT THERE BE A
TWENTY FOUR INCH SPACE BETWEEN
THE STAIRS AND THE DOOR, THE
TOTAL SPACE IS SIXTY EIGHT
INCHES BETWEEN THE STAIRS AND
THE EXTERIOR WALL AND I HAVE WE
HAVE A MEASUREMENT AND A
PICTURE TO SHOW I MEAN IT'S
IT'S THE STAIRS FROM THE FIRST
FLOOR TO THE SECOND FLOOR
LANDING ARE 40 INCHES WIDE AND
SO WE FEEL THAT THE TWENTY FOUR
INCH LANDING SPACE BETWEEN THE
DOOR AND THE STAIRS IS THE BEST
THE BEST THAT CAN BE DONE IN
THAT IN THAT SITUATION.
I JUST THINK OVERALL THE THE
STAIRS AND THE DOOR PROPOSED IS
MUCH SAFER THAN IT WAS BEFORE.
AND YOU KNOW, MY WIFE AND I ARE
ASKING YOUR HELP AND APPROVING
A VARIANCE REQUEST AND I HAVE
ROB FOWLER HERE WHO'S THE
CONTRACTOR IF THERE'S ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS OR IF THERE'S
ANYTHING HE CAN ADD TO IT, YOU
DO YOUR REBUTTAL, CHRIS.
>> QUESTIONS FROM THE BOARD.
YES, JUST A QUICK SO THE
BUILDING IS COMPLETELY
SPRINKLERED.
YES.
YES, SIR.
JUST A QUICK QUESTION TO THE
BUILDING DEPARTMENT.
DOES THE STAIR ENCLOSURE HAVE
TO BE ON OUR YEAH, IT WAS
INDICATED ON THE ORIGINAL PLANS
AS WHEN I REVIEWED SUCH AND
APPROVED AS SUCH.
SO MY FIRST QUESTION IS ON THE
EXISTING SECOND FLOOR PLAN.
SO THE CONDITION WITH THE STAIR
AND THE DOOR IS ACTUALLY WHAT
IT'S WHAT YOU PROPOSING TO FOR
THE LANDING RIGHT IN FRONT
OF THE DOOR TO PUT SPACE
BETWEEN THE DOOR AND THE STAIRS
,OK AND THEN I GUESS MY FIRST
QUESTION IS WHY DO YOU EVEN
NEED A DOOR THERE?
THE I THINK THE BUILDING WANTED
TO KEEP IT A SEPARATE A
SEPARATE UNIT.
WELL, WITH THE OTHER REASON IS
WE HAVE A TENANT WHO'S ALREADY
BEEN HOPING TO MOVE IN FOR
SEVERAL MONTHS AND IT'S A IT'S
A COUPLE OF LAWYERS IT'S A
LAWYER FROM LANSING WHO'S
RELOCATING TO ANN ARBOR AND YOU
KNOW, BASED THE ATTORNEY ETHICS
PROVISIONS YOU HAVE TO HAVE A
LOCK AND THERE'S NO DOOR THEN
YOU KNOW HIS SPACE DOESN'T HAVE
A LOCK.
IT DOESN'T COMPLY WITH ATTORNEY
ETHICS RULES.
I'M NOT SURE I BUY THAT BECAUSE
RIGHT NOW THE WAY THE DOOR IS
CONFIGURED, IT'S BLOCKING THE
STARE DOWN.
IF YOU COME DOWN THE STAIRS
FROM THE THIRD FLOOR THE WAY
THE DOOR SWINGS SWINGS IN FRONT
OF THE STAIR.
IT'S GOING DOWN STREET ALL THE
TIME TOO.
>> BUT I MEAN IT'S BETTER THAN
IT WAS BEFORE IF TO THE EXTENT
THAT TO THE EXTENT THAT IT'S
IMPORTANT TO HAVE SPACE BETWEEN
THE STAIRS AND THE DOOR, THE
OLD CONFIGURE I MEAN THE OLD
CONFIGURATION IS YOU KNOW,
MAYBE IT'S MORE ESTHETICALLY
PLEASING BECAUSE NO, NO, NO,
NO, NO.
I MEAN YOU HAVE DOOR YOU HAVE
THEIR DOORS ON THE THIRD FLOOR
THAT PROVIDE THE STAIRS.
YOU HAVE ALL KINDS OF SECURITY
I MEAN NOT FOR RECEPTION, NOT
FOR COMPUTERS THAT ARE LEFT OUT
AND WELL YOU KNOW THE FRONT
OFFICE AND YOU HAVE NEVER HEARD
OF THE STAIRWAY TO DOOR TO THE
TOP OF THE STAIRS CLOSED THE
STAIR FIRING.
THERE'S A DOOR THERE.
I GUESS WHAT I'M TRYING TO SAY
IS THAT YOU'RE THESE THESE
DOORS ARE TO ME ARE CREATING A
LOT MORE PROBLEMS FOR YOU
BECAUSE IT'S THE DOOR ON THE
SECOND FLOOR WASN'T THERE YOU
COULD HAVE AN EXTRA SET OF FEET
TO CREATE A CODE PRESUMABLY A
CODE COMPLIANCE THERE AND THEN
YOU GET TO THE THIRD FLOOR, THE
DOOR TO DOOR THAT'S LEADING OUT
OF THE STAIR ENCLOSURE IS
BLOCKING THE DOOR TO THE OFFICE
.
I MEAN YOU CAN HAVE CLOSURE ON
ANY TYPE OF CLOSURE ON IT BUT
YEAH.
>> YEAH RIGHT.
BUT THAT DOOR WOULD BE THE
LOCKED DOOR.
THAT COULD BE THE SECURITY DOOR
AND THE OTHER DOOR TO SECURITY
DOOR OR THE SECOND FLOOR IS
RENTED OUT TO LIKE THREE
DIFFERENT CLIENTS AND YOU KNOW
EACH EACH TENANT HAS A SMALL
OFFICE ON THE SECOND FLOOR SO
BUT YOU HAVE A CONTROL DOOR TO
THAT OFFICE SUITE.
YOU WALK UP THE STAIR AND THERE
WOULD BE TO DO A LOT OF HAVING
TO LOCK DOORS.
IT COULDN'T GO ANY FARTHER THAN
THAT FROM THE SECOND FLOOR
TENET HE COULDN'T GET ANY GET
IN THAT THIRD FLOOR BUT BUT
THERE'S NO WAY THIS IS THIS IS
THE ONLY PLACE WHERE I CAN PUT
A DOOR FOR THE THIRD FLOOR JUST
TO LET YOU IN ON TOP OF THE
STAIRS A FEW DOORS RIGHT NOW
THAT'S YOURS.
YOU SHOULD KNOW THAT'S OPEN TO
THE DOOR THAT WAS THERE BEFORE
WAS RIGHT AT THE STAIRS.
OK, SO WE WE THOUGHT OK, THAT'S
NOT GOING TO GET APPROVED SO WE
SAID WE'LL MOVE IT BACK TWENTY
FOUR INCHES THE DOOR AND THIS
IS THE SECOND FLOOR ON THE
THIRD RELEVATION THE SECOND
FLOOR IS THE DOORMAN DURING THE
BOTTOM OF THE THERE'S NO I MEAN
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE HERE TO TRY
TO GET THE VARIANCE FOR.
THERE'S NO DOOR THERE RIGHT NOW
.
THERE USED TO BE A DOOR BEFORE
WE RENOVATED.
THERE WAS A DOOR THAT WAS RIGHT
ON TOP OF THE OLD STAIRS AND
WHEN YOU OPENED IT, YOU KNOW
YOU IT'S STILL DID ENCROACH ON
THE STAIRS DOWN TO THE SECOND
FLOOR NOT AS MUCH BUT WE WERE
BUT OUR THOUGHT WAS OK, THERE'S
A REQUIREMENT THAT THERE TO BE
SPACE BETWEEN THE DOOR AND THE
STAIRS.
SO WE TRIED TO MOVE IT BACK
WHICH IS LIKE I'D PREFER TO BE
RIGHT UP AT THE STAIRS WHERE IT
WAS BUILT TO TRY TO COMPLY.
WE SAID OK, WE'LL MOVE IT BACK
TWENTY FOUR INCHES BUT
THAT'S
THAT'S REALLY THE ONLY PLACE WE
CAN PUT A DOOR THERE OR THE
STAIRS FROM THE SECOND FLOOR.
NONE OF THE FIRST FOUR OF THOSE
ARE THE SAME ISSUES SEVEN
ELEVEN OR TWO LONGER PERIOD
OF TIME.
DO I I DON'T HAVE INFORMATION
ABOUT THOSE SORTS OF STAIRS TO
THOSE ARE EXISTING WILL NOT BE
MODIFIED TO WHATEVER THEY ARE
THEY CAN STAY THEY LOOKED LIKE
THEY WERE TRYING TO THINK
OF THAT STAIRWAY TRYING TO GET
REALLY BETTER IS THAT
INTERPRETATION AS WELL?
YEAH.
THAT THERE WAS GLASS MENTIONED
AT ONE POINT BUT THEN I THINK
THAT IT GOT BACK TO THE ONE
THAT WAS
A IT'S A RATED GLASS
WALL
TO THE THIRD FLOOR.
I MEAN DO YOU REGRESS THE
SECOND FLOOR AS ONE MEANS
EGRESS AND A FIRE ESCAPE TO BE
A SECOND MUSIC TO BE AND THEN
WITH ONLY ONE MEANS YEAGER'S
FROM THE THIRD FLOOR.
I MEAN THE TRAVEL DISTANCE FROM
THE FARTHEST POINT TO THE
BOTTOM THE STAIRS ON THE THIRD
FLOOR HAS TO BE A TRAVELING
DISTANCE OF SEVENTY FIVE FEET
OR LESS TO THE SPRINKLER
BUILDING THAT LOOK AT THE THIRD
FLOOR.
IT DOES ALSO HAVE A FIRE
ESCAPE.
I WASN'T SURE IF YOU UNDERSTOOD
THAT OR NOT.
OK THAT'S THE EXISTING FIRE
ESCAPE.
YES SIR.
DO YOU DO YOU HAVE ANY
INFORMATION ON WHAT THE
EXISTING STAIRS THAT'S THE
EXISTING STAIRS WERE?
NO, NO NO I DON'T.
SO I MEAN THE ONE FROM THE
SECOND FLOOR TO THE GROUND
FLOOR I DON'T THOSE ARE DONE.
THOSE ARE PROBABLY EXISTING TO
THE HOUSE.
THEY JUST HAVE CARPET ON.
SO I HAVE NOT PUT A TAPE AND WE
CHANGE SO WE DIDN'T CHANGE
THOSE WHEN WE RENOVATED SEVEN
YEARS AGO AND WHATEVER WAS
THERE ON OUR PART WE HAD THERE
BUT NOTHING WAS FOUND TO THOSE
STAIRS.
I'M SORRY THOSE THOSE STAIRS
JUST STAYED THE WAY THAT THEY
WERE.
NOTHING IS NOT CORRECT BUT
THEY'RE NOT TOO BAD.
THE ONES GOING TO THIRD FLOOR
THEY WERE EIGHT QUARTER EIGHT
AND A HALF THEY WERE ALL OVER
THE PLACE AND THEY WEREN'T
REALLY VERY STURDY EITHER.
I MEAN THE NEW STAIRS ARE VERY
SOLID TO ME.
THEY'RE SUPER SAFE.
I MEAN I UNDERSTAND THERE'S
THERE'S A ROLE TO PLAY HERE BUT
I MEAN JUST FROM MY OWN
EXPERIENCE IT'S SUCH AN
IMPROVEMENT OVER WHERE WE WERE
ISN'T IS THERE PROVISION AND
THIRD FLOOR WITH AN EXIT DOOR
FROM THE STAIR SWINGS AGAINST
THE ONLY EXIT FROM THAT OFFICE
ISN'T THAT IT'S NOT NOT AN WE
SHOULD DO IS GOING TO BE THE
STAIR TO WHAT'S VERY CLOSE TO
THE TIME REQUIRED READING TIME
CLOSER ON IT.
BUT YOU COULD ALSO SWING INTO
THE STAIR.
YOU COULD MAKE THAT ONE PERSON
TRAVEL BUT THEN YOU DON'T HAVE
THE PULL SIDE OF THINGS OUT
OF THE DOOR.
IT'S NOT AN ADA COMPLIANT YOU
KNOW, MEAN THE OCCUPANT LOAD IS
ONE ONE THING I SHOULD MENTION
IS WHAT WE DID WHEN WE
RENOVATED THE FIRST AND THE
SECOND FLOORS AND AT THAT TIME
THEY REQUIRED A LIFT FOR THE
FIRST FLOOR AND AGAIN THIS IS
ONLY A THIRTY FIVE HUNDRED
SQUARE FOOT BUILDING BUT WE DID
A LIFT AND THE WHAT WE DID IS
WE SAID OK, IF IF ANYBODY IF
ANY TENANT FROM THE SECOND OR
THIRD FLOOR HAS A GUEST COME
AND BASICALLY THIS HAPPENS
REGARDLESS OF WHETHER IT'S AN
A.D.A GUEST OR THEY USE OUR
CONFERENCE ROOM ON THE FIRST
FLOOR AND REALLY THE THIRD
FLOOR IS GOING TO BE A COUPLE
OF ATTORNEYS PRIVATE OFFICE AND
IT'S THE SAME DYNAMIC IF THEY
HAVE A DEPOSITION, IF THEY HAVE
A GUEST, THEY USE THE FIRST
FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM.
SO IT'S RELATIVELY LIGHT
TRAFFIC UP ON THE THIRD FLOOR
TO SECOND FLOOR AND THIRD FLOOR
FRANKLY, I DON'T KNOW IF THAT
MAKES A DIFFERENCE REALLY QUITE
POOR PARENTS.
YOU KNOW, I THINK YOU REMEMBER
WHAT YOU'RE REFERRING TO WITH
THE DOOR
AND THAT'S WHY WE HAVE
ROOM NOW THE POOL HALL SIDE.
SO YOU HAVE IT NOW THE WAY THE
DOOR SWINGS WE WE THOUGHT ABOUT
WHICH WAY THE DOOR SHOULD SWING
AND IT SEEMED LIKE THIS WAY
WOULD BE SAFER.
I MEAN IT SEEMED LIKE IF IT
WERE SWINGING THE OTHER WAY IT
SORT MORE CHALLENGING FOR THE
PERSON WHO'S COMING UP THE
STAIRS TO NAVIGATE IT.
SO IT SEEMED LIKE THE OTHER
SWING DIRECTION WAS GOING TO BE
SAFER.
I MEAN YOU CAN DO THE UPPER
FIFTY PEOPLE SO YOU HAVE THE
LESSER PEOPLE SO YOU CAN SWING
IT THE WAY YOU WANT TO SWING IT
VERSION
.
SO WATCH THE DOOR TALKING ABOUT
WHY COULDN'T THAT BE THE LOCKED
DOOR INTO THE SUITE THAT WILL
BE IF IF IT'S APPROVED THAT
WILL BE LOCKED DOOR THE SUITE
DO YOU DON'T YOU DON'T NEED ONE
AT THE LANDING BETWEEN THE
BOTTOM OF THIRD FLOOR TO THE
SECOND FLOOR.
>> YOU DON'T NEED TO DO OTHER
NOT DID THAT IS THE DOOR I NEED
TO BE THE LOCKED DOOR FROM THE
SECOND FLOOR THE SECOND FLOOR
TO THE TO THE THIRD FLOOR THAT
THAT'S WHAT I WANT TO BE THE
LOCKED DOOR THE STAIRS IN THE
FIRST FLOOR TO THE SECOND FLOOR
THERE'S NO IT'S IT'S OPEN
HALLWAY SO THEN THE SECOND
FLOOR HAS A LOCKED DOOR AT TOP
THE STAIRS AND THEN THAT'S WHAT
HE'S ASKING FOR THE FLOOR
THE
SECOND FLOOR LANDING YOU THE
DOOR WITH THE REST OF THE SUITE
YOU HAVE THIS STORY THE SUITE
THAT KEEPS YOU FROM GOING
ANYWHERE ELSE ON THE SECOND
FLOOR.
RIGHT.
AND THIS DOOR YOU WOULDN'T NEED
BECAUSE YOU WALK UP THE STAIRS
,YOU WALK UP THE STAIRS TO
THIS DOOR AND THEN LOCK THE
DOOR AND LOCK THIS DOOR SO YOU
WANT TO HEAR YOU STILL CAME IN
AND BEING IN THE SUITE THIS
AREA OVER HERE IS IS IT WAS A
RECEPTION WHERE YOU KNOW, THEY
WERE GOING TO HAVE SOME OF YOUR
COMPUTER YOU STARTED WALKING
NORMALLY DURING BUSINESS HOURS
YOU'RE GOING TO LOCK THE DOOR
IF YOU'RE NOT DURING BUSINESS
HOURS LOCK IT IN.
BUT IF IF THERE'S NO DOOR FROM
THE SECOND FLOOR LANDING TO THE
THIRD FLOOR, THEN IT WON'T BE
THERE.
THEIR OFFICE WON'T BE SECURE.
I MEAN ANYBODY WHO COMES IN THE
BUILDING CAN GO UP TO THEIR
RECEPTION AREA AND WHO KNOWS
WHAT I MEAN.
IT WON'T BE SECURE.
I DON'T UNDERSTAND THAT.
YEAH, I DON'T UNDERSTAND THAT
YOU'RE RIGHT.
I MEAN YOU'LL BE ON THE THIRD
FLOOR.
YOU'VE GOT A DOOR INTO THE
SUITE.
YEAH.
AND THEN ANOTHER DOOR IS LOCKED
ON THE TOP OF THE STAIRS.
THE STAIRS YOU'RE TRYING TO DO
RIGHT HERE AND YOU SHUT THE
DOOR RIGHT THERE
.
THERE'S A DOOR RIGHT THERE
THAT'S THE WORKS IN THE OFFICE
AS THERE'S NO STORY THERE IS A
DOOR RIGHT THERE.
THAT'S THE BATHROOM DOOR.
NO WINDOWS HERE IT'S BEEN IT'S
NOT ACCURATE.
THIS THIS IS THE GREATEST AREA
FOR HER TO HAVE TO FIRE
DIRECTLY TO THE DOOR HERE AND
THERE.
THERE'S NO DOOR HERE.
WELL, THERE HAS TO BE A DOOR
HERE IF YOU'RE GOING TO FIRE
MORE OF IT.
THAT'S WHAT GEORGE YEAH.
>> YEAH.
FOR THAT EVEN EVEN THAT DOESN'T
YOU STILL NEED A DOOR THAT
WOULDN'T BE IF I READ IT HERE
THEN WE I MEAN WHAT YOU'RE
DESCRIBING IS NOT WHAT THE
DRAWINGS ARE.
IT'S HARD FOR US TO, YOU KNOW,
ENGAGE THAT.
I MEAN IS THAT CLEAR WHAT HE'S
SAYING BECAUSE SO THIS THIS
DOOR IS THERE RIGHT.
NOT GOING TO GET A BUILDING.
CAN I SAY ONE OTHER THING ABOUT
THAT IS I MEAN THE WHOLE THING
ABOUT THIS THIRD FLOOR IS THESE
THAT THE CEILING OFFICE HERE IS
SO IMPORTANT AND SO YOU
COULDN'T PUT A DOOR THERE.
IT WAS THE WHOLE POINT OF THE
THIRD FLOOR IS THERE'S A
VAULTED CEILINGS BECAUSE THAT
IF YOU TRIED TO PUT A DOOR
THERE JUST I UNDERSTAND THE
POINT IS YOU'RE DRAWING THE
SHOW THERE AND THAT'S THAT'S
WHAT'S SO IF THAT DOOR IS NOT
THERE THEN IT ASSUMES THAT
IRRITATED WALL IS GOING TO
CONTINUE ALL THE WAY AROUND
DOOR TO THE DIRECTOR'S OFFICE
IS GOI TO BE READ THE DOOR TO
THE BATHROOM IS GOING TO BE
RAIDED.
ARE OUR GOALS TO HAVE THE DOOR
GONE WRONG?
>> WE STILL NEED TO USE
CELEBRITIES.
>> DO WE STILL NEED TO CLEAR
THE TOM, CAN YOU HAVE A STAIR
THAT'S NOT ENCLOSED?
WHO'S GOING TO BUY
GUY THAT WE
WERE PUTTING OUR EGG AT THE
BOTTOM OF THE STAIRS UNDERSTOOD
IT BUT
YOUR DRAWING SUGGESTS
THAT THE NEXT DOOR
IS THERE AND
IS RELATED TO THAT COMPLETES
THE ENCLOSURE TO THE STAIR HEAD
SO AND AND THAT'S WHY WE WERE
FOCUSING ON THAT PARTICULAR
DOOR BECAUSE THAT DOOR IN THIS
OFFICE DOOR IF THEY WERE
LOCKABLE WOULD GIVE YOU THE
SECURITY TO THE SECOND FLOOR
AND YOU WOULDN'T LEAVE THE DOOR
AT THE BOTTOM OF THAT STAIR AND
THE HOLE THAT UP THERE YOU
KNOW, THE WHOLE LANDING ISSUE
WHICH TO ME IS ACTUALLY THE
BIGGER PROBLEM THAN YOUR STAIR
RUNNING RISE.
YOU GET THE DOOR OUT, YOU'RE
GOING TO GET RISING MUCH
LONGER.
YOU'RE MORE SPACE.
WELL, YOU COULD GET A
COMPLIANCE THERE.
THAT'S MORE THREATS YOU COULD
GAIN TWO FEET BUT IT ALSO THAT
THE SWING OF THAT DOOR AT THE
BOTTOM OF THE STAIRS LOCKS
ACCESS DOWN IF SOMEBODY IS
COMING DOWN FROM THE THIRD
FLOOR.
RIGHT.
I MEAN IT SWINGS AGAINST THE
OTHER THE OTHER YOU'RE GOING TO
WALK OUT I WALK OUT OF THE
STAIRWELL AROUND THE DOOR, WALK
ROUND THE DOOR.
YEAH.
SO THAT DOOR IS PARTICULARLY
PROBLEMATIC FROM WHEN OF EGRESS
FROM A POINT OF VIEW OF A
LANTERN LANDING, YOU KNOW AND
IT ACTUALLY IMPEDES BEING ABLE
TO GET A CODE COMPLIANT STAIR
AND I UNDERSTAND I COMPLETELY
UNDERSTAND THE WHOLE YOU KNOW,
LEGAL SECURITY AND ALL THAT
STUFF.
BUT THAT SEEMS THAT SEEMS TO BE
THE CRUX OF WHAT'S CAUSING A
LOT OF THE PROBLEM.
YOU KNOW, AND IF YOU INSIST ON
THE STARE THE DOOR AT THE
BOTTOM OF THE STAIR AND THE
DOOR THE TOP OF THE STAIR ISN'T
THERE THEN THAT GETS A WHOLE
OTHER SET OF PROBLEMS BECAUSE
YOU DON'T HAVE A COMPLETE
ENCLOSURE, A COMPLETE RATING.
SO
WE HAVE A DRAWING THE
DRAWING OF EXISTING ONE BEFORE
NEVER HAD NEVER HAD TO DO WITH
TOP OR ANYTHING ELSE OPEN
BEFORE DOWN HERE.
>> WELL I THINK IT'S SUPPOSED
TO BE YOU KNOW WHAT THE ISSUE
WAS WAS IT.
YEAH IT WAS APPARENTLY THE
STUFF THERE.
YEAH.
THERE'S A BUILDING HAVE A FIRE
ALARM SYSTEM.
YES SIR.
ARE SUPPRESSION AN ALARM BOTH
INSIDE
THE
AND THE OTHER PARTS
OF THE APPLICANT APPLICATION AS
FAR AS THE ENCLOSING WALLS TO
MAKE THE FIRE TO WALL STREET
THE GLASS IS THAT STILL GOING
TO HAPPEN?
YEAH, WE CAN MAKE THAT HAPPEN
.
WE WERE STILL AT THE POINT
OF WHAT YOU'RE PROVIDING
EQUALLY GOOD PEOPLE.
YOU HEAR WHAT THE CODE REQUIRES
.
WE STILL HAVE THAT THRESHOLD
AND YOU KNOW, ANY KIND
OF JUSTIFICATION THAT ARE
SHORTER TRADE AND A STEEPER
RISE IS BETTER THAN
SEVEN-ELEVEN.
OH,
I THINK JUST THE FACT THAT
IT'S A HISTORIC BUILDING THAT
WAS YOU KNOW, WAS BUILT LIKE
ONE HUNDRED TWENTY FIVE YEARS
AGO AND I MEAN THERE JUST ARE
CONSTRAINTS TO YOU KNOW, WHAT
IS PRACTICAL WITH YOU KNOW, THE
EXISTING CONFINES YOU KNOW
THAT'S ON THE OUTSIDE THE
DISTRICT, THE OUTSIDE MORE THAN
THE INSIDE.
YOU KNOW, THEY'RE NOT
REGULATING WHAT YOU WERE THE
STAIRWAY WHERE THEY KNOW
THEY'RE THEY'RE REGULATING I
MEAN THEY'RE REGULATING.
I CAN'T GO UP I CAN'T CREATE
ANY MORE SPACE UPWARDS.
SO YEAH, WE'RE TRYING TO MAKE
THINGS THAT YOU KNOW, THE BEST
WE CAN BUT IT WOULDN'T PREVENT
ANYONE STARE AT IT.
>> I MEAN I'M NOT SURE WHERE
ELSE THEY CAN BE MOVED.
I IT'S I THOUGHT WE WERE DOING
SOMETHING GREAT.
I MEAN IF I HAD KNOWN I WOULD
HAVE SAID OK LEAVE THE TRIP
HAZARD AT THE TOP.
I MEAN FRANKLY IT'S IT'S IT'S
IT'S YOU KNOW WE THOUGHT WE
WERE MAKING A BIG IMPROVEMENT
AND I GUESS THAT'S ALL I HAVE
TO SAY.
I MEAN THE CHALLENGE IS ONCE
YOU TOUCH IT YOU'RE GOING TO
BRING UP THE CODE .
IT'S THE CHALLENGE IS THE END
OF YOU KNOW, WHICH WE FEEL THAT
LANDING AND FLUSH THE TRIGGER,
ET CETERA, ALL THE REST THE WAY
DOWN YOU REBUILD
.
IT WAS BUILT AS A HOUSE WHICH
PROBABLY WHY IT WAS DRIVING OR
HAVING TO RIDE IN YOU THAT
STAIRWAY, YOU KNOW.
SO THAT WAS THE
YOU KNOW, THE
QUESTIONS ROUBAUD I THINK THAT
QUESTION IS WHERE DO WE GO FROM
HERE?
I MEAN THE STAIRS WE COULD
DISCUSS OUR FIRE RATING WINDOWS
COVERED BUT CAN WE DO SOMETHING
WITH THE DOOR NOW THAT YOU SEE
WHERE ANGST WAS FOR US IN TERMS
OF THE DRAWING?
I UNDERSTAND THAT I DIDN'T SEE
THAT.
IT JUST LOOKED THAT IN I MEAN I
GUESS, YOU KNOW, IS THERE A
MIDDLE GROUND HERE?
DON'T WE LIVE WITH THE STAIRS
AT SEVEN AND THREE QUARTER?
I LIKE WE LIKE TO SEE IS THAT
WHICH YOU DON'T YOU THE DRAW
THERE WITH THE HYDRAULICS I'M
SURE WE CAN YOU GET A 7-ELEVEN
THERE IF YOU START AT THE TOP
WHEN YOU'RE STARING IT AND NO
ONE IS TREADS HOW MANY
TRANSMITTERS.
SO THEN I GUESS I HAVE A
QUESTION IF YOU GUYS ARE SAYING
WE CAN'T HAVE THAT ON THE ON
THE LANDING ARE YOU SAYING WE
HAVE TO HAVE A DOOR AT THE TOP?
I MEAN IT'S GOING TO JUST
DESTROY THE SPACE FOR A STORY
HERE AND CLOSURE?
I THINK YOU NEED TO HAVE IT
ALL.
BUT WHAT IF THERE'S NO DOOR
THEN I MEAN I DON'T I DIDN'T
YOU DON'T HAVE A COMPLIANT
ENCLOSURE.
DON'T SHAKE YOUR HEAD.
I MEAN THE I'LL TELL YOU THAT
FOR ME I HAVE LESS OF A PROBLEM
WITH THE FACT THAT THE STAIR
WAS BUILT THE WAY IT WAS WHICH
BEGETS A WHOLE OTHER QUESTION
OF HOW DID WE GET TO THIS POINT
WHERE, YOU KNOW, THE DRAWINGS
WERE FINE BUT THEY DIDN'T SHOW
ANYTHING IN TERMS OF RISE
OF ONE AND IT GETS DISCOVERED
IN THE FIELD, YOU KNOW, BUT
THAT'S THAT'S A DISCUSSION FOR
ANOTHER TIME.
I HAVE LESS OF A PROBLEM WITH
THE THE STAIR THE WAY IT WAS ON
THE BASIS THAT THIS EXISTING
STAIR IS PROBABLY JUST AS STEVE
AND I HAVE MUCH MORE OF A
PROBLEM WITH THE DOOR AT THE
BOTTOM OF THE STAIRS AND A
LITTLE TOO FOR THE LANDING AS
YOU COME BARRELING DOWN THE
STAIRS AND THEN THE DOOR
BLOCKING THE ACCESS TO THE
STAIR GOING DOWN AND I MEAN THE
FOLLOW UP TO THAT IS IT SEEMS
LIKE THE SECURITY ISSUE COULD
BE SOLVED BY PUTTING THE DOOR
AT THE TOP OF THE STAIRS.
WE HAVE IT SHOWN AND JUST
MAKING IT POSSIBLE AND MAKING
THE OFFICE WALK RIGHT.
>> BUT YOU'RE REALLY SAYING IS
IT'S NOT IT'S NOT SECURITY.
IT'S A REQUIREMENT.
I YOU'RE REALLY WELL I MEAN
THAT YOU'RE I'M SAYING WHAT IS
REQUIRED AT THE TOP.
I'M SAYING IT'S A REQUIREMENT
FROM FROM THE FIRE ENCLOSURE
POINT OF VIEW BUT IT ALSO SEEMS
TO SOLVE THE PROBLEM
OF SECURITY.
THE VARIANCE GOES WITH THE
BUILDING NOT WITH WHO THE
OCCUPANTS ARE NECESSARILY.
SO
ARE WE ABLE TO REVERT BACK
TO THE OLD STAIRS AND THE OLD
DOOR?
I MEAN BECAUSE FRANKLY IF WE
COULD DO THAT I'D RATHER DO
THAT.
I DON'T IF THAT'S PERMITTED OR
NOT.
BUT THAT'S THAT THAT WOULD BE A
DIFFICULT ROAD BECAUSE WE HAVE
NO I MEAN I DON'T KNOW WHERE TO
LOSE THERE.
YEAH.
I MEAN THE STAIRS HAVE ALREADY
BEEN BUILT SO YOU CAN CONVERT
BACK TO THE OLD WAY WHICH IS A
PERMANENT INSITUTE POTENTIALLY
.
>> YES.
THEY WERE STILL THERE
UNDERNEATH THE OTHER STAIRWELL.
YOU CAN JUST TAKE THEM OUT LIKE
THIS.
YOU KNOW THEY'RE STILL THERE.
THEY'RE
WELL I MEAN IF YOU WANT
TO INVESTIGATE THINGS MORE WE
COULD YOU COULD MAKE A REPORT
FROM TABLE THAT YOU CAN
INVESTIGATE FURTHER, COME BACK
WITH A DIFFERENT OPTION.
OK, I COULD SAY IF THEY'RE
MAKING ADJUSTMENTS, WHATEVER
THEY DO IS GOING TO NEED TO GO
THROUGH MY REVIEW IF THEY'RE
CHANGING WHAT'S ON THE PLAN AND
I THINK THAT THAT'S WHERE THE
INSPECTOR ASKED FROM FOR SOME
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FROM THE
DESIGN PROFESSIONAL JUST AS A
CAVEAT WHEN YOU HOPE IT HELPS
US REVIEW IT AS WELL, WHAT
YOU'RE PROPOSING IS DRAWN.
YOU CAN KNOW YOU'RE OPPOSING IN
THAT IT WOULD BE A SEPARATE IF
THERE'S STILL A VARIANCE FROM
WHAT THEY RESUBMIT.
I FEEL LIKE THAT'S A SEPARATE
ISSUE.
>> BUT IS THAT A CONCERN AS FAR
AS WHEN THEY SUBMITTED THE
PLAN?
YOU ME WHAT HAPPENED ON THAT?
YOU KNOW THAT THE WAY THEY
SUBMITTED SOMETHING PRIOR TO
THE NEXT MEETING I MEAN WE
COULD GET IT THROUGH REVIEWED
IT WOULD BE OUTSIDE OF OUR
EXPEDITE IT IF IT WAS NECESSARY
FOR BUT AGAIN THAT'S DEPENDING
ON WHEN WE GET IT EXACTLY.
I AM YEAH.
WELL WE HAVE TO WE CAN MAKE A
MOTION AND WHAT WE HAVE
PRESENTED TODAY WERE VARIANCE.
YOU CAN IMPRESS TABLE FOR
APPROPRIATE TIME FOR YOU TO GET
MORE INFORMATION YOU KNOW FOR
SIXTY DAYS I THINK IS HAVE THE
MAXIMUM TO LOOK FOR.
YEAH THAT'S THERE WOULD BE TWO
MEETINGS FROM NOW IT WOULD BE
YOU'D HAVE TO GET SOMETHING
WITHIN A MONTH TO GET THE
AGENDA FOR THE NEXT MEETING YOU
HAVE TO BE IN BY MID AUGUST
THAT WOULD BE SEPTEMBER MEETING
IF YOU WANT TO GO THAT ROUTE I
MEAN I GUESS IT SOUNDED TO ME
LIKE IS LIKE THAT'S PROBABLY
THE BEST CHOICE.
WELL JUST TO ADD TO THAT
WHATEVER THEY DO THEY STILL
HAVE TO ADDRESS THE ONE CLOSURE
ISSUE ON THE THIRD FLOOR,
RIGHT?
YEAH.
I MEAN IT'S GOT TO BE PART
OF THAT.
YEAH.
IT'S GOT TO BE PART OF THE
SOLUTION.
YEAH.
SO WHATEVER WHATEVER YOU DECIDE
TO DO WHETHER YOU DECIDE TO
JUST COME BACK WITH WHAT YOU'VE
GOT ON THE DRAWING, YOU STILL
HAVE TO ADDRESS THAT THIRD
FLOOR RETROGRADING CLOSURE,
WHATEVER IT IS WHETHER IT'S
ORATED DOOR WOULD YOU WE'RE
SHOWING IT BUT YOU DIDN'T
REALLY SHOW IT OR IT'S A MORE
EXPANSIVE ENCLOSURE THAT THAT
HAS TO BE PART OF THE PACKAGE
PACKAGE.
I UNDERSTAND AND WE'VE SEEN
FIRE RELATED DOORS THAT DROP
DOWN AND LOCK AT THE END OF THE
DAY AND THAT'S IT.
YOUR YOUR DESIGN PEOPLE WILL
COME UP WITH SOME I MEAN IT
COULD BE IT COULD BE A GLASS
DOOR.
I MEAN IT DOESN'T IT DOESN'T
HAVE TO BE A SOLID OR EITHER SO
IT HAS TO BE ONE OR TWO
OF THEM.
WELL YOU KNOW, PROVISIONALLY
PRIORITY FOR US AND LOCKABLE
FOR YOUR CLIENT
.
THE QUESTION TO COMMENT DO YOU
HAVE ANY QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS
FOR US?
NO EMOTION MOVE TO
MOVE TO
TABLE BVA 25 DASCH ZERO ZERO
ONE ZERO AT THREE TO EAST
LIBERTY FOR A PERIOD OF I'M
SORRY I THOUGHT THERE YEAH I
MOVED TO TABLE BEEBER 25 ZERO
ZERO ONE ZERO ZERO TOO EASILY
FOR A PERIOD OF 60 DAYS PENDING
FURTHER REVIEW BY THE APPLICANT
CHECKING WHO'S IN FAVOR BUT I
TABLE FOR SIXTY DAYS AND GET
THANK YOU
THAT CLOSES THE
APPEALS ACTIONS NEW CRITERIA
FOR THIS WHOLE BUSINESS.
I DID I DIDN'T HAVE IT PRIOR TO
THIS BUT I GOT AN UPDATE FROM
SIX TWENTY SOUTH STATE AND THEY
FOUND A CODE COMPLIANT THAT
THAT WAS THE STAIRS GOING TO
THE BASEMENT FOR THE FRATERNITY
HAS BEEN TABLED BUT I RECEIVED
AN EMAIL SAYING THEY HAD A
CODE FIND OUT THAT THEY WERE
GOING TO SUBMIT FOR REVIEW.
SO WHAT ABOUT THE OTHER
APARTMENT BUILDING ON STATE
STREET THAT HAD THE EGRESS
WINDOW BASEMENT WINDOW WASHER?
SO WITH THE SUPPRESSION AND
TRAVEL DISTANCE THEY MET THE
REQUIRED YOU DIDN'T NEED A
BARRIER TO DEVELOP THE DRUG WAS
IN THE PACKET THAT WAS AN
EXCUSE ME THERE AND THAT'S WHAT
HAPPENED.
YOU REMINDED ME.
YEAH, YEAH.
IT'S A GOOD MENTAL FROM ANY
OTHER NEW BUSINESS NO MOTION TO
ADJOURN.
IT'S NOT A MOTION TO ADJOURN
THOSE A FAVOR I DO THIRTEEN
LIKE